Frequently Asked Questions / FAQ

I did not receive an Explanation of Benefits (EOB) statement for a recent dental office visit. How can I view/print my EOB statements?

Delta Dental does not mail EOB statements for services covered at 100 percent and for which the patient owes nothing. These statements, however, are available to view and print on our secure Member Portal. Once you have logged in to Member Portal, click on Claim Info. Enter the date of service in the Start Date field, or enter a date range using Start Date and End Date. Click on the Claim Number for the EOB you wish to view. You also can click on the Procedure Code number for a definition of the service provided. To print EOB statements, click on the printer icon in your browser toolbar or select File then Print.

Do you offer individual dental coverage?

Yes, individuals may purchase coverage through Delta Dental’s Individual Plan. For more information on our individual dental plan options, visit the Individual Delta Dental Plans page or call 800-971-4108.

How do I find out which plan type I currently have?

For information about your benefit plan, log in to Member Portal or contact our customer service department at 800-524-0149.

Can I view information for my adult dependents online?

Information for dependents 17 and older must be obtained via phone.

How do I get a new ID card?

You may print an ID card using our Member Portal, or you may request an ID card via phone by calling 800-524-0149. In most cases, you do not need an ID card to visit the dentist.

Does my plan offer "two free cleanings a year?"

To get information about your specific benefit plan, log in to Member Portal or call us at 800-524-0149.

My current dentist is not a participating Delta Dental provider. Will Delta Dental pay anything on my claim?

Delta Dental has an extensive list of participating providers. Visiting a participating provider may help to reduce your out-of-pocket expenses. However, if you choose to see a dentist who is not a participating provider with Delta Dental, you still may be eligible for partial reimbursement. Contact a customer service representative for more information.

How do I submit a claim for reimbursement?

Participating dentists will submit claims for you. If you choose to visit a nonparticipating dentist, you may need to file your own claims. Printable claim forms are available for download on our Dental Office Toolkit. Either you or your dentist may complete the form and attach a copy of your bill. Completed forms may be submitted via mail to: Delta Dental, PO Box 9085, Farmington Hills, MI 48333-9085.

I have never used my plan before, how does it work?

We welcome the opportunity to help you learn what your benefit options are as well as help you locate a participating provider in your area. You can register for Member Portal to learn more about your specific benefit plan. If you need help finding a dentist, visit our dentist search. You can also contact our customer service department for further assistance at 800-524-0149.

Does my plan cover braces?

Orthodontic coverage varies from plan to plan. Please sign in to Member Portal to view your benefits, or contact us to determine eligibility requirements.

What is my member ID number?
Your member ID number is often your Social Security number. Some groups use randomly assigned alternate ID numbers instead of Social Security numbers. If your group uses alternate ID numbers, your number will be printed on your ID card.